---
layout: posts
title: Semester 1: Week 1- Digital Technology is Not Neutral
permalink: /post1/
---



Prior to being an intern at Create Caribbean, I knew little information about digital humanities and technology, however, director Dr Espirit educated us on such a topic. Www.education.vic.gov.au defines digital technology as 'electronic tools, systems, devices and resources that generate, store or process data.' These tools aid in manoeuvring in this digital age. Through further discussions, I also learned that there is a Bill of Rights that states all students have the right-
1. Access- Online learning has the potential to ensure that this right is a reality for a greater percentage of the world`s population than has ever been realizable before.
2. Privacy- Student privacy is an inalienable right regardless of whether learning takes place in a brick-and-mortar institution or online.
3. Create public knowledge- Learners within a global have the right to work, network, and contribute to knowledge in public.
4. Own one’s personal data and intellectual property- Students also have the right to create and own intellectual property and data related to attending online courses.
5. Financial transparency- Students have the right to know how participation supports the financial health of the online system they participate in.
6. Pedagogical transparency- Students have the right to understand the intended outcomes of online programs or initiatives.
7. Have great teachers- All students need compassionate teachers in a learning environment that meets their specific learning goals and needs.
8. Be teachers- Students can participate in and shape one another`s learning through peer interaction and by forming virtual and real-world networks.

As well as principles for learning in the digital age;
1. Global contribution- Online learning should take place around the world, not just in the United States and other tech-savvy countries.
2. Value - The function of learning is to allow students to equip themselves to address the challenges and requirements of life and work.
3. Flexibility - Students should have a range of flexible learning opportunities that take advantage of new digital tools and pedagogies to widen these traditional horizons, thereby better addressing 21st-century learner interests.
4. Hybrid learning- Online learning needs to be linked to multiple locations around the world, not just the digital realm.
5. Persistence- Learning is emerging and is a lifelong pursuit that is not driven by the walls of educational institutions and there is no specific endpoint.
6. Innovation- Both technological and educational innovation should be characteristic of the best learning environment.
7. Formative assessment- Students should have the opportunity to relearn repeatedly until they have achieved the desired level of proficiency in their subject or skill.
8. Experimentation- Experiments need to be the recognized benefits and benefits of online learning.
9. Civility- Courses need to facilitate interaction and collaboration between students wherever they enhance their learning experience.
10.Play- Open online education should encourage unexpected experiments and questions. In other words, you need to encourage play.

During my reading on "Ideologies of Boring Things: The Internet and Infrastructures of Race“ by Emily Drabinski, Safiya Umoja Noble, in her book “Algorithms of Oppression”, instead of focusing on what makes it possible, explores the Internet as an infrastructure, looking at what remains hidden from sight by mathematical algorithms. Noble instead argues that the Web is a repressive machine, "a series of" digital choices "that strengthen repressive social relationships and force new forms of racial profiling. She further expounds on the racial stereotypes of black women through the eyes of white people, mainly men. In her book, Noble also stated that tech companies cause problems due to algorithms, from various media platforms to platforms that promote racism. This article, really opened my eyes to the hidden aspects of search engines and the impact it has on race.
